# EJS

## Getting started in terminal

```md
npm init -y
npm instal --save express body-parser cors ejs
```

## Getting started in JS

```js
var express = require('express');
bar bodyParser = require('body-parser');
var cors = require('cors');
var app = express();

app.use(bodyParser());
app.use(cors());

app.set('views, path.join(__dirname, 'views));
app.set('view engine', 'ejs');

app.get('/', function(request, response){
response.render('index');
})

app.listen(8000, function(){
console.log("heard on 8000");
})
```

- response.render takes 3 parameters

1. view - sting of the file name
2. Object of local variables
3. callback

- Partials- nav bar or something that stays static

### Options

- `cache` Compiled functions are cached, requires filename
- `filename` Used by cache to key caches, and for includes
- `root` Set project root for includes with an absolute path (e.g, /file.ejs). Can be array to try to resolve include from multiple directories.
- `views` An array of paths to use when resolving includes with relative paths.
- `context` Function execution context
- `compileDebug When false no debug instrumentation is compiled
- `client` Returns standalone compiled function
- `delimiter`
- `openDelimiter`
- `closeDelimiter` '/li>
- `debug` Outputs generated function body
- `strict` When set to `true`, generated function is in strict mode
- `_with` Whether or not to use with() {} constructs. If false then the locals will be stored in the locals object. (Implies `--strict`)
- `localsName` Name to use for the object storing local variables when not using with Defaults to locals
- `rmWhitespace` Remove all safe-to-remove whitespace, including leading and trailing whitespace. It also enables a safer version of -%> line slurping for all scriptlet tags (it does not strip new lines of tags in the middle of a line).
- `escape` The escaping function used with <%= construct. It is used in rendering and is .toString()ed in the generation of client functions. (By default escapes XML).
- `outputFunctionName` Set to a string (e.g., 'echo' or 'print') for a function to print output inside scriptlet tags.
- `async` When true, EJS will use an async function for rendering. (Depends on async/await support in the JS runtime.

### Tags

- `<%` 'Scriptlet' tag, for control-flow, no output
- `<%_` ‘Whitespace Slurping’ Scriptlet tag, strips all whitespace before it
- `<%=` Outputs the value into the template (HTML escaped)
- `<%-` Outputs the unescaped value into the template
- `<%#` Comment tag, no execution, no output
- `<%%` Outputs a literal '<%'
- `%>` Plain ending tag
- `-%>` Trim-mode ('newline slurp') tag, trims following newline
- `_%>` ‘Whitespace Slurping’ ending tag, removes all whitespace after it

Includes
Includes are relative to the template with the include call. (This requires the 'filename' option.) For example if you have "./views/users.ejs" and "./views/user/show.ejs" you would use `<%- include('user/show'); %>`.

You'll likely want to use the raw output tag `(<%-)` with your include to avoid double-escaping the HTML output.


### CLI

- `cache`` Compiled functions are cached, requires filename
- `-o / --output-file FILE` Write the rendered output to FILE rather than stdout.
- `-f / --data-file FILE` Must be JSON-formatted. Use parsed input from FILE as data for rendering.
- `-i / --data-input STRING` Must be JSON-formatted and URI-encoded. Use parsed input from STRING as data for rendering.
- `-m / --delimiter CHARACTER` Use CHARACTER with angle brackets for open/close (defaults to %).
- `-p / --open-delimiter CHARACTER` Use CHARACTER instead of left angle bracket to open.
- `-c / --close-delimiter CHARACTER` Use CHARACTER instead of right angle bracket to close.
- `-s / --strict` When set to `true`, generated function is in strict mode
- `-n / --no-with` Use 'locals' object for vars rather than using `with` (implies --strict).
- `-l / --locals-name` Name to use for the object storing local variables when not using `with`.
- `-w / --rm-whitespace` Remove all safe-to-remove whitespace, including leading and trailing whitespace.
- `-d / --debug` Outputs generated function body
- `-h / --help` Display this help message.
- `-V/v / --version` Display the EJS version.
