# Sending Data Forms

## Client Side: Sending data

- `<form> Defines how the data will be sent
  - two most impostant attributes are action and method
  - **action** defines where the dat gets sent. Its value must be a valid relative or absolute URL
    - If attribute isnt provided, the data will be sent to the URL of the page containing the form.
  - **Method** defines how data is sent. Most common methods GET and POST
    - **GET** method used by the browser to ask the server to send back a given resource. Body is empty
    - **POST** method the browser uses to talk to the server when asking for a response that takes into account the data provided in the body of the HTTP request: Information is appended to the body.
  - **Viewing HTTP requests** requests are never displayed to the user. 

## On the Server Side: Retrieving the data

- Whichever HTTp method you choose, the server receives a string that will be parsed in order to get the data as a list of key/value pairs. 

### A Special case: Sending files

- sending files with HTML forms is a special case. Files are binary data or considered as such- whereas all other data is text data.
  - **The Enctype attribute** lets you specify the value of the Content-Type HTTP header included in the request generated when the form is submittled
    - Header tells the server what kind of datya is being sent.
    - If you want to send the files , you need to take three extra steps
      1. set the method attribute to `POST` because file content can not be used inside URL parameters
      2. set the value of `enctype` to `multipart/form-data` because the data will be split into multiple parts, one for each file plus one for the text data included in the form body.
      3. Include one or more `<input type="file">` controls to allow your users to select the files that will be uploaded.

### Security issues

- each time you send data to server you need to consider security.
  - HTML form are most common for security breaches
  - always be paranoid and never trust your users
  - Escape potentially dangerous characters
  - limit the incoming amount of data to allow only what is necessary
  - sandbox upload files
