# RD 02 - Express

1. What’s the difference between `PUT` and `PATCH`?

- The main difference is in the way the server processes the enclosed entity to update the resource identifed by the request-URL. 
  - PUT request, enclosed entity is viewed as the modified version of the resource saved on the original server, and the client making a request to replace it.
  - PATCH request, the enclosed entity boasts a set of instructions that guide how a resource stored on the original server should be partially mondified to create a new version.
- HTTP PUT - is idempotent since it always yields the same results even after making several requests
- HTTP PATCH - is non-idempotent, however can be made idempotent based on where it is implemented.

[Source](https://rapidapi.com/blog/put-vs-patch/)

2. Provide links to 3 services or tools that allow you to “mock” an API for development like `json-server`
  a. [faker.js](https://www.techiediaries.com/angular-mock-backend/)
  b. [Mock Service Worker](https://www.infoq.com/news/2020/11/msw-mocking-graphql-rest-api/)
  c. [Postman](https://learning.postman.com/docs/designing-and-developing-your-api/mocking-data/setting-up-mock/)
  d. [Other "mock" Resources](https://nordicapis.com/10-tools-to-mock-http-requests/)

3. Compare and contrast Swagger and APIDoc.js 1 Which HTTP status codes should be sent with each type of (un)successful API call?

- Swagger is meant for consuption by JS web projects the have module bundlers, like webpack, browserfy and rollup. It is meant for server-side projects that need assets to serve clients.
[swagger](https://swagger.io/docs/open-source-tools/swagger-ui/usage/installation/)
- APIdoc Creates a documentation from API annotations in source code. Gives the ability to attach a version number to an API so you can easily track changes between versions
[apiDoc](https://apidocjs.com/)

4. Compare and contrast SOAP and ReST

- **SOAP** is a XML-based message protocol and uses WSDL for communication between consumer and probider. Invokes services by calling RPC method
- **REST** is an architectural style and uses XML or JSON to send and receive data. REST calls services via URL path.

[source](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10975863/compare-and-contrast-rest-and-soap-web-services#:~:text=The%20difference%20is%3A,calls%20services%20via%20URL%20path)

**Web Server** software or hardware dedicated to running software to fulfill clients requests. Web server store, process and deliver web pages to clients

**Express** Web server framework hosted within node.js but written in JS. It is specifically designed for building web applications - Unopinionated

- Write handlers for requests with different HTTP verbs at different URL paths(routes)
- ntergrate with view rendering engines in order to generate responses by inserting data into templates
- set common web application settings like the port to use for connecting and the location of templates that are used for rendering the response
- add additional request processing middleware at any point within the request handling pipline.

**Routing** a way of organizing and managing application states. Helps change the state of the application such as moving from one admin pannel to the next while maintaining application persistence

WRRC

### NPM

- Adapt packages of code for your apps, or incorporate packages as they are.
- Download standalone tools you can use right away.
- Run packages without downloading using npx.
- Share code with any npm user, anywhere.
- Restrict code to specific developers.
- Create organizations to coordinate package maintenance, coding, and developers.
- Form virtual teams by using organizations.
- Manage multiple versions of code and code dependencies.
- Update applications easily when underlying code is updated.
- Discover multiple ways to solve the same puzzle.
- Find other developers who are working on similar problems and projects.

### TDD - Test Driven Development

- Refers to a style of programming in which three activities are tightly interwoven: coding, testing and design(refactoring)
- Rules
  - write a “single” unit test describing an aspect of the program
  - run the test, which should fail because the program lacks that feature
  - write “just enough” code, the simplest possible, to make the test pass
  - “refactor” the code until it conforms to the simplicity criteria
  - repeat, “accumulating” unit tests over time