# express REST API

1. Name 3 real world use cases where you’d want to change the request with custom middleware. 

create own middleware to manipulate the request
User authentication
log requests to the console

2. True or false: The route handler is middleware? 

True

In what ways can a middleware function end the process and send data to the browser? 

log requests to the console, route middleware with parameters/validates specific parameters, check if user is authenticated 

3. At what point in the request lifecycle can you “inject” middleware?
What can cause express to error with “Request headers sent twice, cannot start a second response”

before the request is processed.

## Express Routing

**Routing** - referes to how an applications endpoints(URIs) respond to client requests
**Middleware** functions that have access to the request object, req, res, next in the app's response cycle
**Request Object** allows you to submit a POST or GET request to an URL. It provides a way to make REST API requests to another URL
**Response Object** One of the most important objects in ASP, it communicates between the server and the output which is sent to the client
**Application Middleware** is bound to the instance of the app object by using app. use() or app. METHOD functions where method is the HTTP method of the request
**Routing Middleware** same as above but is bound to an instance of express.Router()
**Test Driven Development** is a programming methodology with wich one can tackle the design, implementation, and testing of units of code, and to some extent the expected functionality of a program
**Behavioral Testing** uses human-readable descriptions of software user requirements as the basis for software tests. each test is based on a user story written in the formally specified ubquitous language based on English
