# Data Modeling

1. Name 3 advantages to Test Driven Development
  a. when tests fail when they should pass, developers know something is wrong immediately.
  b. saves time
  c. dev team can fix the code right away when detecting breakage.

2. In what case would you need to use `beforeEach()` or `afterEach()` in a test suite? 

if you have work you need to do repeatedly for many tests

3. What is one downside of Test Driven Development

the test suite itself has to be maintained. tests may not be completely reliant on external dependencies. test may be hard to write, especially beyond the unit testing level

4. What’s the primary difference between ES6 Classes and Constructor/Prototype Classes?

A class defines a type that can be instantiated at runtime where prototype is itself an object instance and a constructor function is soley a function that returns an object

5. Why REST?

Uses less bandwidth and is simpler and flexible for internet usage.

- **functional programming** is the process of building software by composing pure functions, avoiding shared state, mutable data, and side-effects. it is declarative and application state flows through pure functions.

- **object-oriented programming** a style in which inheritance occurs via defining classes of objects, instead of inheritance occurring via the objects alone. The most popular model of OOP is class-based. 
- **class** template for creating objectes and encapsulate data with code to work on that data
- `super` refers to the parent class and is used to call the constructor of the parent class and to access the parent's properties and methods
- `this` keyword that refers to the object it belongs to. In a function, this refers to the global object. In a function, in strict mode, this is undefined. in an event, this refers to the element that received the event.c
- **Test Driven Development(TDD)** Refers to a style of programming in which three activities are tightly interwoven:coding, testing and design/refactoring.
- **Jest** library for testing code.
- **Continuous Integration (CI)** is a practice which prescribes to continously intergrate new code and new features into a shared codebase. helps team get rapid feedback, adjust errors and fix bugs more quickly
- **REST** REpresentational State Transfe- is an architectuaral style that handles the client-server relationship, with the prupose of aiming for speed and performance by using reusable components.
- **Data Model** the objects used for sending data back and forth between client app and backend.
