# Review, Research, and Discussion

1. Write the following steps in the correct order

- Ask the client if they want to sign in via a third party
- Register your application to get a client_id and client_secret
- Receive access token
- Make a request to the access token endpoint
- Make a request to a third-party API endpoint
- Redirect to a third party authentication endpoint
- Receive authorization code

2. Temparay code that the client will exchange for an access taken. User gets a chance to see what the information the client is requesting and approve or deny the request.

3. What apps use to make API requests on behalf of a user. Represents the authorization of a specific application to accesss specific parts of a user's data

4. Does not share password data but instead uses authorization tokens to prove an identiey between consumers and service providers. it is protocol that allows you to approve one application interaction with another on your behalf without giving away your password.

- Client ID- used to identify the application/ public information that is ok to show users
- Client Secret- used to identify your application/ secret information that must be kept secret or anyone could steal and use
- Authentication Endpoint- security mechanism designed to ensure that only authorized devices can connect to a given network, site or service
- Access Token Endpoint- an HTTP endpoint that micropub clients can use to obtain an access token given an authorization code
- API Endpoint- is a point at which an application program interface the code that allows two software programs to communicate with each other and connects with the software program
- Authorization Code - is an alphanumeric password that authorizes its user to purchase sell or transfer items or to enter information into a security- protected space.
- Access Token- allow an application to access and API and make requests on behalf of a user. repesent the authorization of a specific application to access specific parts of a users data. Must be kept confidential in transit and in storage.