# Access Control (ACL)

1. Basic Authentication schemes are authentication using a username and a secret. The Bearer authentication shceme is authentication using a token.

2. JWT- is an open standard that defines a self-contained way and self-contained wat for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. Can be trusted because it is diginally signed

3. Considerations when storing secrets

- Never store unecryped screts in .git repositories
- Dont share your secrets unecrypted in messaging systems like slack
  - use encryption to store secrets within .git repositories
  - use .env
- Restrict API access and permissions
  - default to minimal permission scope for APis
  - Use short lived secret

- encryption - Process of taking plain text and scrambling it into an unreadable format. It helps protect the confidentiality of digital data eithere stored on computer systems or transmitted through a network.
- token - object that represents something else, such as another object or an abstract conceptsuchas a gift is sometimes reffered to as a token. Basic component of source code
- bearer - type of access token used with OAuth2.0. string not intended to have any meaning to clients using it. created by the authentication server.
- secret - two parties to a transaction must share a cryptographic session key which is also secret, known only to them and to no others.encryped key/message
- JSON Web Token - Is an open standard that defines a compact and self-contained way of securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. API authentication mechanism.
