# Socket.io

- What is the benefit of transforming data into packets?
  - Packets provide a discrete unit of data within the TCP protocols.

- UDP is often refereed to as a connectionless protocol. Why is this?
  - It is refered to as a connectionless protocol because it does not need to establish a connection between the source and destination before you transmit data.

- Can a socket server application have multiple socket connections?
  - Yes, as long as different you can connect multiple sockets connections to a socket server.

- Can a socket connection application be connected to multiple socket servers?
  - A server socket listens on a single port all the established client connections on that server are associated with that same listening port on the server side of the connection. Multiple connections on the same server can share the same server-side as long as they are associatted with a different client side.

- Can an application be both a socket server and a socket connection? Yes but you can't have two threads sending over the same TCP/IP socket or two threads recieving at the same TCP/IP socket

- **Observer Pattern** software design pattern in which an object called the subject maintains a list of its dependents or observers and notifies them automatically of any state changes buy valling one of their methods

- **Listener** is a procedure in that waits for an event to occur.
- **Event Handler** scripts that are automatically executed when an event occurs
- **Event Driven Programming** programing where everything stars by following an event. Browser
- **Event Loop** monitors the call stack and the callback queue.
- **Event Queue** is responsible for sending new functions to the track for processing. It follows the queue data structure to maintain the correct sequence in which all operations should be sent for execution
- **Call Stack** is a mechanism for an interpreter that keeps track of its place in a script that calls multiple functions.
- **Emit/Raise/Trigger**
  - Emit - allows you to emit an event that causes all callbacks registered to the events to fire
  - creates makes happen
  - triggers the specified event and the default behavior of an event.
- **Subscribe** create an observable instance that defines a subscriber function
- **database** is an organized collection of structured information or data stored electronically in a computer system.

jest.useFakeTimers();
expect(setTimeout).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(2)

- **TCP** Transmission Control Protocole(way of transmitting information- most used)
  - Rules for moving data from one computer to another via open channel
- SYN-ACK - Synchronization Acknowledgement