# Message Queues

- What does it mean that web sockets are bidirectional? Why is this useful?
  - Allows for full-duplex bidirectional communication which enables the server to send real-time updates asynchronously without requiring the client to submit a request each time.

- Does socket.io use HTTP? Why?
  - Yes it is composed of a server that integrates with the node.js HTTP server socket.io

- What happens when a client emits an event?
  - emits/sends custom events that are received by the server with the message event

- What happens when a server emits an event?
  - When a request is received the server calls a function defined in our code which handles the request and returns some response.

- What happens if a client “misses” an event?
  - Nothing happens the code is not triggered.

- How can we mitigate this?
  - There is no way to mitigate this there should always be event listeners on

- Socket- enables real-time bidirectional event-based communication
- Web Socket - is a persistent connection between a client and server.
- Socket.io- Is a library that enables real-time bidirectional and event-based communication between the browser and the server.
- Client - action takes place on the user's side or browser, sends requests/receives responses to/from the server
- Server - action takes place on server side communicates with the client and database.
- OSI Model - Open Systems Interconnection Model - is a conceptual framework used to describe the functions of a networking system.
- TCP Model - a connection-oriented communications protocol that facilitates the exchange of messages between computing devices in a network
- TCP - Transmission Control Protocol
- UDP User Datagram Protocol is a communications protocol that is primarily used for establishing low-latency and loss-tolerating connections between applications on the agreement internet
- Packets - small bits of data that is sent from one computer to another. Each packet includes information about where the data is going where it is from and how to reassemble it.
