# AWS: S3 and Lambda

- What’s the difference between a FIFO and a standard queue?
  - FIFO queues are similar to the standard que but also allow for ordering and exactly once processing

- How can the server be assured a message was properly received?
  - Storing in a queue or sending a confimation message

- What classic design pattern is best represented by event driven programming?
  - Singleton

- How do you test an event driven system?
  - using event driven testing which functions within the application input data and output data via messages that are stored in a message queue.

- **Server Instances** is a collection of SQL Server databases which are run by a solitary SQL server service or instance.every instance belongs to a single domain and has its own directory structure, configuration, and deployed applications
- **Containers** way of storing your code, dependencies and configurations
- **Cloud Services** provide easy, affordable access to applications and resources, without the need for interal infastructure and hardware. Stores data on remote servers which can be accessed throught the web. 
- **Cloud Architecture** Communicates with vendors to negotiate third-party contracts for hardware, software and cloud tech.engineering to leverage the power of cloud resources to solve problems.
- **AWS** Amazon Web Services- secure cloud service platform, computes power, database storage, content delivery that helps businesses grow.
- **EC2/Beanstalk vs Heroku** Heroku has bigger price jumps were AWS is more linear in their pricing. Heroku is simpler to get up and running and AWS is harder to learn. Heroku is equip with a runtime environment and application servers. AWS has more features over all.
- **CDN** Content Delivery network- geographically distributed group of servers that work together to provide fast delivery of internet content