# AWS: API, Dynamo and Lambda

- What’s the difference between a FIFO and a standard queue?
  - FIFO queues allow for exactly once processing and for ordering processing
- How can the server be assured a message was properly received?
  - by sending a confirmation message or storing in a queue
- What classic design pattern is best represented by event driven programming?
  - Singleton
- How do you test an event driven system?
  - by using event driven testing functioning within the applications input and output data via messages that are stored in a queue

- **Serverless Functions** - event-driven - code is invoked only when triggered by a request. The provider only charges for the compute time versus a monthly fee for maintaince of a physical or public server
- **Cloud Storage** uses data centers that have giant computer servers which store the data and make it available online to users via the web. Users can remotely upload, store and retrieve their data.
- **CDN** Content Delivery Network - is a highly-distributed platform of servers which minimize delays in loading web page content by reducing the physical distance between the server and the user. Helps users everywhere view the same quality content with out delays in loading times.

- **API Gateway** stands in as your API server and manages the schema of your HTTP API - connects each endpoint to the right backend service, and handles authentication and throttling
  - downside- added latency in your APIs- can add costly milliseconds to your response time and you can not fine tune performance parameters. 
  - alternatives- running your own API servers, which is worth it if latency-sensitive issues.
  - upside- building serverless HTTP APIs.
  - Limits - usage limits
    - Regional API - you can only have 600 regional APIs per AWS account
    - Integration Timeouts - the shortest possible timeout for an integration in API Gateway is 50 ms, and the longest is 29 seconds.
    - Payload Size -maximum payload that can be returned by an API endpoint is 10MB
